>> Brian Holt: But let's talk a little
bit about what we've done here.
We have an order form,
this will eventually will look nicer once
we have all the pieces put together.
>> Brian Holt: I want you to try and
select a different type of pizza.
>> Brian Holt: Doesn't work, right?
>> Brian Holt: It broke the browser,
which is actually kinda hard to do, right?
The browser works really well at creating
these types of forms, and whatever we
did with React made it not work, which
seems kind of counterproductive, right?
Same thing with the pizza size,
click on one of these other buttons.
No matter what, you're always going
to be selecting small or large, and
that's annoying, right?
We expect the radio buttons to work so
that you can select small,
medium, or large.
Well, reason with me of
why this is happening.
>> Brian Holt: All right,
you have [COUGH] pepperoni here, right?
Which is the value here, so
that's why it's selecting that one.
Now I click Hawaiian, right?
If I click Hawaiian here, what happens?
React says, hey, an event happened,
the user did something,
it's time for
us to re-render this component, right?
So it goes through and
it re-renders this component,
says pizza type pepperoni, right?
And so it sets the value
to be pizza type pepperoni.
So even though the user is
clicking on something else,
it's immediately setting it back to where
it was, because this isn't dynamic, right?
This is just assigned and
then it just stays that way.
So we have to do some sort of assigning
pizza type to be something different or
else it's just gonna continually be that.
>> Brian Holt: This is just
a roundabout way of me explaining and
showing to you that two-way data
binding is not free in React.
There are some other frameworks.
Famously, Angular 1 was a big
two-way data binding framework.
And that's just not true anymore,
we found that that's very fun to write and
very bad to maintain because it becomes
very black magic of where did this
variable come from?
>> Brian Holt: Part of the magic
of React is that it is verbose.
I'm not gonna argue with
you that it is not.
It could be shorter or
more terse or something like that.
It's a little less fun to write, and
it's a lot more fun to maintain.
And as I've gone through my career,
I have found that that's actually
worth its weight in gold, right?
I don't wanna optimize for the couple of
hours I'm gonna spend writing something.
I wanna optimize for the hundreds of hours
I'm gonna spend maintaining something.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so that's my
spiel of why I think this is okay,
despite the fact that it
is a little annoying.
>> Brian Holt: Interesting,
if you go try something like solid js,
which is very similar
to React in many ways.
They found a way to kind of make it
work with something called signals.
I think signals are in pre-act as well,
no,
I haven't written pre-act in a long time.
But anyway, suffice to say other
framework, different approach to this,
but React takes a very straightforward,
very, I wanna call it JavaScripty.
They're just kind of working with
JavaScript to make it work the way that
JavaScript normally works,
as opposed to having black magic around
the the framework to
make it work differently.
So let's, let's go make this
work with state then, right?
We're gonna use something called a hook.
Everyone do this thing called input,
use state from React.
Anything that you see use in React,
the alarm should go off in your head,
it's like this is a hook, okay?
So instead of these two, I'm gonna say
const pizza type, set pizza type.
>> Brian Holt: Equals use state, and
then you give it the default first value,
pepperoni.
Same thing with pizza size, const.
SetPizzaSize equals useState and
whatever you want the default to be.
We had it as medium, we'll just leave it
as medium, but you could change it to
large if you're trying to drive up
your margins or something like that.
>> Brian Holt: This is also
a course on capitalism,
I don't know if I told you that, [LAUGH].
All right, so
now we have this use state thing, but
this now makes pizza type able to
be set to be something different.
It makes this React components stateful,
but
we still have to call this set pizza
type somewhere so that we can change it.
So the way that we're gonna do it is
we're gonna go on our select here.
By the way,
these are just highlighted because
they're not being used anywhere but.
We'll do that in just a second.
All right, so
I'm just gonna put some space here so
you can see what I'm writing.
We're gonna do something
here called onChange.
And the only thing we're
going to do is we're
going to say e,
which is like a normal break.
Browser event, right?
You could call this event just for
so many years of doing this,
I just always call it e.
So that's really up to you,
>> Brian Holt: And
we're just gonna give this
this anonymous function,
let's say set pizza type
to be e.target.value.
>> Brian Holt: So
this is saying whenever a change event
happens on select call this function.
This function takes in an event and
it calls set pizza type with
the target.value, the target is gonna
be one of these options, right?
Because that's what's actually gonna
be the Well, I think the target's
actually the select, not thinking about
it, but the value will change, right?
So the value will be
whatever the option is.
So this value will be whatever their user
has set, and we'll call that with set
pizza type, which will then end up
changing the pizza type up here.
Which kicks off a re-render, and
now it's gonna be correctly
rendering the same thing.
So if we set this size is still not gonna
work because we haven't done that yet.
But let's go try this one.
We should be able to set
this to something else.
Congratulations, we unbroke it, right?
All right so this is called a hook.
Some rules around fight club,
we don't talk about fight club.
Some rules around hooks,
you do talk about hooks,
you can talk about hooks, that's fine.
>> Brian Holt: They can never
be inside of conditionals.
So never, ever do something like this.
If something right, then use state.
This is a big no no, because the one
thing about hooks is that they depend on
being called in the same
order every single time.
So, if I did a conditional there,
then it would sometimes give
them to me out of order.
So really what would happen is sometimes
like medium would show up in pizza type,
which is not what you want.
So, in other words, conditional or
hooks never go inside of for
loops, while loops,, do loops.
They never go inside of conditionals,
they're just always top level.
Even if you don't use them, that's fine.
Just never put them in conditionals.
You never have to.
So you just, sometimes you ignore
a hook and that's fine, but
you still have to call it in
the same order every single time.
There's linting rules that
will help you with that.
As well, so why are they called hooks?
In my like head canon of why this is,
I don't I've never asked anyone this.
This is just what occurs to me,
is there's a hook that gets called
in the same order every single time.
So it's like a hook being picked up,
right?
And they get picked up in the same
order every single time in these
render functions, right?
>> Brian Holt: Yep, hooks rely on
strict ordering, we talked about that.
Yeah some of you might be thinking like,
this seems like a weird API, right?
It is kind of a weird API,
if you think about it.
I'm just so used to to seeing it so
frequently that, again,
a frog that got boiled, right?
But it's just returning to
you an array of two things,
the actual thing, and then the setter for
the actual thing, right?
That's just all that is, right?
So you could definitely say, like const,
pizza hook,
>> Brian Holt: =useState
>> Brian Holt: Right, and then you would
say const pizzaType = pizzaHook[0].
And then set pizzaType.
>> Brian Holt: Right, this one line is
the equivalent of these three lines.
But we're all very lazy and
we all write it this way.
So useState is.
By far the most common one
that you will use, but
I will show you a couple other hooks.
But just know that use state
is by far the most common one.
Yeah.
Someone online is just asking if you could
console log just to show kind of the state
changing.
Sure.
>> Brian Holt: Type, pizza size,
>> Brian Holt: All
right, let's just trash this.
>> Brian Holt: All right, so, you can
see every time that a user event is
happening here,
it's actually doing a re-render.
It's interesting that it is smart enough
to know that events happening in other
parts of the Dom are not being observed,
and so it's not catching those events.
Reactors gotten a lot
smarter over the years.
They used to would have triggered
a re-render, and it doesn't anymore.
So let's go make it work
with pizza size as well.
>> Brian Holt: So with, pizza size there's
a couple of different ways to do this.
I'll show you the lazy way that
the linter will complain about.
>> Brian Holt: Event bubbling
still works in React as well.
So in theory,
you can actually do it this way
>> Brian Holt: Equals, same thing,
E, setPizzaSize to be
E.target.value,
>> Brian Holt: And then this will
start working Working, right?
Because we have one event listener
on the parent element, right?
And so it's listening for
just the one time.
React doesn't like this because
it views as inaccessible,
which generally you don't want
change handlers on like divs
because screen readers and
all that kind of stuff can't access.
divs, they access inputs, right?
I think that in this particular case,
it wouldn't matter because it's still
bubbling the event no matter what.
And so you can have a change event
on a input and it'll still work.
But let's just appease the linting gods.
And we're going to put this
on all the individual inputs.
It's more explicit as well, so
we're just gonna put this three
different times in all of these.
>> Brian Holt: Now you might say,
well do I need E.target.value?
Or should I do S here like this.
>> Brian Holt: Tomato, tomato, same thing.
>> Brian Holt: Because the value
is coming from here, right?
>> Brian Holt: But
in both cases, it works.